Dataset description:
The dataset contains weather information (Temperature, Humidity, Windspeed, Visibility, Dewpoint, Solar radiation, Snowfall, Rainfall), the number of bikes rented per hour and date information.

Attribute Information:

Date : year-month-day
Rented Bike count - Count of bikes rented at each hour
Hour - Hour of he day
Temperature-Temperature in Celsius
Humidity - %
Windspeed - m/s
Visibility - 10m
Dew point temperature - Celsius
Solar radiation - MJ/m2
Rainfall - mm
Snowfall - cm
Seasons - Winter, Spring, Summer, Autumn
Holiday - Holiday/No holiday
Functional Day - NoFunc(Non Functional Hours), Fun(Functional hours)
rainbow

Project Flowchart:
Initial preparations(Loading the dependencies and the data)

EDA

Clean-Up

Handling null values
Handling duplicate values
Removing Outliers
Feature engineering

Feature encoding
Checking correlation for feature removal
Removing Multicollinearity
Obtaining correlation between dependent and independent variables
Pre processing of the data

Target feature conditioning
Creating train and test dataset
Feature Scaling
Model implementation

Linear Regression
Ridge Regression
Lasso Regression
Random forest regression
Model explainability

Charts

column chart
embedded chart
bar chart
circular area chart
line chart

column histogram
line histogram
scatter histogram
3D area chart
column chart with subcomponents
waterfall charts
pie charts
stocked area chart
stocked coulmn charts
pair plot
box plot
kde charts
hexbin plots
heat map


Conclusion:
EDA insights:

Most number of bikes are rented in the Summer season and the lowest in the winter season.
Over 96% of the bikes are rented on days that are considered as No Holiday.
Most number of bikes are rented in the temperature range of 15 degrees to 30 degrees.
Most number of bikes are rented when there is no snowfall or rainfall.
Majority of the bikes are rented for a humidity percentage range of 30 to 70.
The highest number of bike rentals have been done in the 18th hour, i.e 6pm, and lowest in the 4th hour, i.e 4am.
Most of the bike rentals have been made when there is high visibility.
Results from ML models:

Random Forest Regression is the best performing model with an r2 score of 0.6645.
Lasso Regression(L1 regularization) is the worst performing model with an r2 score of 0.4264.
Actual vs Prediction visualisation is done for all the 4 models.
All 4 models have been explained with the help of SHAP library.
Temperature and Hour are the two most important factors according to all the models.
Challenges faced:

Removing Outliers.
Encoding the categorical columns.
Removing Multicollinearity from the dataset.
Choosing Model explainability technique.

About
Supervised ML (Regression) capstone project on bike sharing demand prediction.


